Overview
--------

The preparse project allows to preparse arguments before the main parsing. 
Its ability to deabbreviate options is especially useful for use with ``click``.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/preparse/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/preparse/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/preparse/
- Website: https://preparse.johannes-programming.online/

Installation
------------

To install preparse, you can use pip. Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install preparse

Introduction
------------

The preparse project allows for preprocessing a list of arguments so that they can be parsed definitively in a later step. This way, the functionality of another parsing system can be modified. The project is especially adapted to work with the click project.

The project preparse is strongly inspired by the getopt and getopt_long libraries within C.

Here is the implementation of the ``expit`` project (Version 1.0.13) to illustrate how preparse can be used to modify click.

.. code-block:: python

    import math

    import click
    import preparse

    __all__ = ["function", "main"]


    def function(x: float) -> float:
        "This function is the logistical sigmoid, i.e. the expit function."
        try:
            p = math.exp(-x)
        except OverflowError:
            p = float("+inf")
        return 1 / (1 + p)


    @preparse.PreParser().click()
    @click.command(add_help_option=False)
    @click.help_option("-h", "--help")
    @click.version_option(None, "-V", "--version")
    @click.argument("x", type=float)
    def main(x: float) -> None:
        "This command applies the expit function to x."
        click.echo(function(x))

Features
--------

The PreParser class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``class preparse.PreParser(*, allowslong: Any = True, allowsshort: Any = True, bundling: Any = Tuning.MAINTAIN, expandsabbr: Any = True, expectsabbr: Any = True, expectsposix: Any = False, optdict: Any = (), prog: Any = None, reconcilesorders: Any = True, special: Any = Tuning.MAINTAIN, warn: Callable = str)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class is the centerpiece of the preparse. Its behaviour follows the principles of getopt from C.

``allowslong: bool``
""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether long options are allowed.

``allowsshort: bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether short options are allowed.

``bundling: preparse.Tuning``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``Tuning`` property determines the approach to bundling of short option.

``click(cmd: Any = True, ctx: Any = True) -> preparse.Click``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method returns a decorator that infuses the current instance into ``parse_args``.

``copy() -> Self``
""""""""""""""""""

This method returns a copy of the current instance.

``expandsabbr: bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether recognized abbreviations of long options are to be expanded to their full length.

``expectsabbr: bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether abbreviations of long options are expected.

``expectsposix: bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether the order of arguments to conform to the POSIX standard, i.e. all arguments after the first positional argument also being positonal.

``optdict: preparse.Optdict``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This property holds a dict-like object. 
Its keys are the options. 
Its values specify ``preparse.Nargs``. 
Options not found within the dictionary 
cause a ``preparse.PreparseInvalidOptionWarning`` 
and are then assumed to have no arguments.

``parse_args(args: Optional[Iterable] = None) -> list[str]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method is at the core of the class. 
It returns a preparsed list of arguments. 
If ``None`` is passed as args then ``sys.argv[1:]`` is used. 
If the method is applied repeatedly to a list there will be no changes after the first run.

``prog: str``
"""""""""""""

This ``str`` property represents the name of the program. 
If the value passed to the property is ``None`` then ``str(sys.argv[0])`` is saved.

``reconcilesorders: bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This boolean property determines whether compatibility with both orders, 
POSIX and the interleaving of options with positonal arguments, should be enforced.

``reflectClickCommand(cmd: click.Command) -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method alters the current instance to reflect a ``click.Command`` object. 
Concretely the optdict property is changed.

``reflectClickContext(ctx: click.Context) -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method alters the current instance to reflect a ``click.Context`` object. 
Concretely the prog property is changed.

``special: preparse.Tuning``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``preparse.Tuning`` property determines the approach to the special argument ``'--'``.

``todict() -> dict``
""""""""""""""""""""

This method a dict representing the current instance.

``warn: types.FunctionType``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This property holds a function that is called whenever ``parse_args`` encounters a warning. 
The warning is given as the only positional arguments. 
No keyword arguments are given. 
Its return value is discarded. 
Therefore, ``str`` is used to discard the warnings.

The Click class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``class preparse.Click(parser: preparse.PreParser, cmd: Any = True, ctx: Any = True)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This dataclass provides decorators for embedding a ``PreParser`` object.

``__call__(target: Any) -> Any``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self(target)``.
It works as a decorator that embeds its parser into a given target from the library click.

``cmd: Any``
""""""""""""

This property determines if the ``reflectClickCommand`` method of parser is to be called.

``copy() -> Self``
""""""""""""""""""

``ctx: Any``
""""""""""""

This property determines if the ``reflectClickContext`` method of parser is to be called.

``parser: preparse.PreParser``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This property holds the parser to be embedded.

The Optdict class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``class preparse.Optdict``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class is a subclass of ``datahold.HoldDict[str, preparse.Nargs]``
with strings as keys and with ``preparse.Nargs`` as values.
It is designed for ``preparse.PreParser.optdict``.

The Enums
~~~~~~~~~

These classes are subclasses of ``enum.IntEnum``. 
Any value different from ``0`` (meaning no) and ``1`` (meaning yes) is interpreted as ``2`` (meaning intermediate).

``class preparse.Tuning``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+--------------+-------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name         | Value | Explanation                                                                 |
+==============+=======+=============================================================================+
| ``MINIMIZE`` | ``0`` | The PreParser minimizes the aspect in question.                             |
+--------------+-------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``MAXIMIZE`` | ``1`` | The PreParser maximizes the aspect in question.                             |
+--------------+-------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``MAINTAIN`` | ``2`` | The PreParser does not make any unforced changes to the aspect in question. |
+--------------+-------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

``class preparse.Nargs``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+-------------------+-------+----------------------------------------------+
| Name              | Value | Explanation                                  |
+===================+=======+==============================================+
| NO_ARGUMENT       | ``0`` | The option does not take an argument.        |
+-------------------+-------+----------------------------------------------+
| REQUIRED_ARGUMENT | ``1`` | The option requires an argument.             |
+-------------------+-------+----------------------------------------------+
| OPTIONAL_ARGUMENT | ``2`` | The option may take an argument.             |
+-------------------+-------+----------------------------------------------+

The Warnings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

These classes are subclasses of ``Warning`` that are specifically designed to communicate issues with parsing.

``class preparse.PreparseWarning``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract base class is the base for all other warning types.

``class preparse.PreparseAmbiguousOptionWarning(prog: Any, option: Any, possibilities: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class warns about ambiguous options. This can only happen for long options.

``class preparse.PreparseInvalidOptionWarning(prog: Any, option: Any, islong: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class warns about invalid options.

``class preparse.PreparseRequiredArgumentWarning(prog: Any, option: Any, islong: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class warns about missing required arguments.

``class preparse.PreparseUnallowedArgumentWarning(prog: Any, option: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class warns about unallowed arguments. This can only happen for long options.

The Tests
~~~~~~~~~

``preparse.test() -> unittest.TextTestResult``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This project can be tested through its test function.

.. code-block:: python

    import preparse
    preparse.test()

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/